.TH TERMTOSVG 1 2018-08-05
.SH NAME
termtosvg \- record terminal sessions as svg animations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY termtosvg
.RB [ "-h, --help" ]
.RB [ "-v, --verbose" ]
.RB [ "-g, --screen-geometry"\c
.RI = geometry ]
.RB [ "-t, --template"\c
.RI = template ]
.I outfile
.YS
.SY "termtosvg record"
.RB [ "-h, --help" ]
.RB [ "-v, --verbose" ]
.RB [ "-g, --screen-geometry"\c
.RI = geometry ]
.I outfile
.YS
.SY "termtosvg render"
.RB [ "-h, --help" ]
.RB [ "-v, --verbose" ]
.RB [ "-g, --screen-geometry"\c
.RI = geometry ]
.RB [ "-t, --template"\c
.RI = template ]
.I infile
.RI [ outfile ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B termtosvg
makes recordings of terminal sessions in animated SVG format. If no
.I outfile
filename is provided, a random temporary filename will be automatically
generated.
.SS Commands
The default behavior of
.B termtosvg
is to render an SVG animation.
.TP
.B termtosvg record
Record a terminal session in asciicast v2 format. The recording is a text file
which contains timing information as well as what was displayed on the screen
during the terminal session. It may be edited to alter the timing of the
recording or the information displayed on the screen of the terminal.
.TP
.B termtosvg render
Render an animated SVG from a recording in asciicast v1 or v2 format. This
allows rendering in SVG format of any recording made with asciinema.
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -g, --screen-geometry
Geometry of the terminal screen used for rendering the animation. The
.I geometry
must be given as the number of columns and the number of rows on the screen
separated by the character "x". For example "82x19" for an 82 columns by 19
rows screen.
.TP
.B -t, --template
Set the SVG template used for rendering the SVG animation.
.I template
may either be one of the default templates
.RI ( gjm8 ,
.IR dracula ,
.IR solarized_dark ,
.IR solarized_light ,
.IR progress_bar ,
.IR window_frame ,
.IR window_frame_js )
or a path to a valid template.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Print usage and exit.
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Increase log message verbosity.
.SS SVG Templates
Templates make it possible to customize the SVG animation produced by
.B termtosvg
in a number of ways including, but not limited to:
.IP *
Specifying the color theme and font used for rendering the terminal session.
.IP *
Adding a custom terminal window frame to the animation to make it look like a
real terminal.
.IP *
Adding JavaScript code to pause the animation, seek to a specific frame, etc.
.P
See
.BR termtosvg-template (5)
for more details.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SHELL
.B termtosvg
will spawn the shell specified by the
.B SHELL
environment variable, or
.I /bin/sh
if the variable does not exist. Spawning a new shell is necessary so that
.B termtosvg
can act as an intermediary between the shell and the pseudo terminal and
capture all the data sent to the terminal.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B Record a terminal session and produce an SVG animation named animation.svg:
.IP
.EX
termtosvg animation.svg
.EE
.RE
.TP
.B Record a terminal session and render it using a specific template:
.IP
.EX
termtosvg \-t ~/templates/my_template.svg
.EE
.TP
.B Record a terminal session with a specific screen geometry:
.IP
.EX
termtosvg \-g 80x24 animation.svg
.EE
.TP
.B Record a terminal session in asciicast v2 format:
.IP
.EX
termtosvg record recording.cast
.EE
.TP
.B Render an SVG animation from a recording in asciicast format
.IP
.EX
termtosvg render recording.cast animation.svg
.EE
